Phishing Model

Basic Concepts

Phisher ()

Phishing Target

1 Lure Message (emails, etc.)
2 Hook Webpage
3 Catch actions/activities by the Phisher

Authenticity Cue (features a person uses to determine legitimacy, e.g., believable sender address)

Influence Technique 
 Examples:
  Authority: Claims to come from an individual or institution that represents an authority figure.
  Urgency: States that the receiver has a limited time to respond.
  Reciprocity: Claims to provide some form of favour to the recipient.
  Social proof: Suggests that other people have responded to the email.
  Reward: Claims to provide the receiver with a potential reward if they respond.
  Loss: Claims that the receiver will suffer some form of loss if they fail to respond.

Phishing Susceptibility

Open Issues
- Distnguish between spear phishing and generic phishing?
- Limit "phishing" to obtaining credentials (or other exploitable information)? Or also include getting the target to transfer money or download malicious software?


Existing Theories/Models

IPPM  Vishwanath, A., Herath, T., Chen, R., Wang, J., Rao, H.R., 2011. Why do people get
phished? Testing individual differences in phishing vulnerability within an integrated,
information processing model. Decis. Support Syst. 51, 576–586. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2011.03.002.

 The IPPM suggests that the likelihood that an individual will respond
 to a phishing email is influenced by the content of the email (such
 as influence technique cues that it contains), the use and accuracy of
 email signatures, and the sender address.
 
SCAM  Vishwanath, A., Harrison, B., Ng, Y.J., 2016. Suspicion, cognition, and automaticity
model of phishing susceptibility. Commun. Res. 1–21. https://doi.org/10.1177/
0093650215627483. online pre-print.
 
 The SCAM claims that the extent to which heuristic processing strategies are used when 
 evaluating emails varies according to characteristics of the individual recipient. 
 These differences primarily relate to individual beliefs regarding online risk, which 
 encompasses the degree of experience, efficacy, and subject-specific knowledge that people have.


